Gasless txs guide (#86)
OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-docs: components/learn/modules/ROOT/pages/on-gsn.adoc

We will create a super simple contract that just counts transactions sent to it from users but will tie it into the GSN so the users will not have to pay for the gas from those transactions. Let's get started!

[[environment-set-up]]
=== Setting up the Environment

We will begin by creating a new npm project and installing all dependencies, including https://www.trufflesuite.com/ganache[Ganache] (which we'll use to xref:deploy-and-interact.adoc#local-blockchain[run a local network]):

[source,console]
----
$ mkdir gsn-dapp && cd gsn-dapp
$ npm init -y
$ npm install @openzeppelin/network
$ npm install --save-dev @openzeppelin/gsn-helpers @openzeppelin/contracts-ethereum-package @openzeppelin/upgrades @openzeppelin/cli ganache-cli
----

Use the CLI to set up a new project and follow the prompts so we can write our first contract.

[source,console]
----
$ npx oz init
----

TIP: Check out xref:deploy-and-interact.adoc#getting-started-with-the-cli[Getting Started with the OpenZeppelin CLI] if you're unfamiliar with it.

[[creating-our-contract]]
=== Creating our Contract

We will write our vanilla `Counter` contract in the newly created `contracts` folder.

[source,solidity]
----

> pragma solidity ^0.5.0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// contracts/Counter.sol
pragma solidity ^0.5.0;
```

contract Counter {
  uint256 public value;

  function increase() public {
    value += 1;
  }
}
----

> This is simple enough. Now, let's modify it to add GSN support. This requires extending from `GSNRecipient` contract and implementing the `acceptRelayedCall` method. This method must return whether we accept or reject to pay for a user transaction. For the sake of simplicity, we will be paying for all transactions sent to this contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is simple enough. Now, let's modify it to add GSN support. This requires extending from the `GSNRecipient` contract and implementing the `acceptRelayedCall` method. This method must return whether we accept or reject to pay for a user transaction. For the sake of simplicity, we will be paying for all transactions sent to this contract.
```

> NOTE: For most (d)apps, it is probably not a good idea to have such a generous policy since any malicious user can easily drain your contract from funds. Check out our xref:contracts::gsn-strategies.adoc[guide on GSN payment strategies] for different approaches to this problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: For most (d)apps, it is probably not a good idea to have such a generous policy since any malicious user could easily drain your contract's funds. Check out our xref:contracts::gsn-strategies.adoc[guide on GSN payment strategies] for different approaches to this problem.

```

Author: Shouldn't we remove the leading `NOTE:` if it's moved to `[NOTE]` above?

Reviewer: Ha, yes! The admonition block isn't even complete without the trailing ====. I've fixed it now.

[source,solidity]
----

> pragma solidity ^0.5.0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// contracts/Counter.sol
pragma solidity ^0.5.0;
```

import "@openzeppelin/contracts-ethereum-package/contracts/GSN/GSNRecipient.sol";

contract Counter is GSNRecipient {
  uint256 public value;

  function increase() public {
    value += 1;
  }

  function acceptRelayedCall(
    address relay,
    address from,
    bytes calldata encodedFunction,
    uint256 transactionFee,
    uint256 gasPrice,
    uint256 gasLimit,
    uint256 nonce,
    bytes calldata approvalData,
    uint256 maxPossibleCharge
  ) external view returns (uint256, bytes memory) {
    return _approveRelayedCall();
  }

>   function _preRelayedCall(bytes memory context) internal returns (bytes32) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // We won't do any pre or post processing, so leave _preRelayedCall and _postRelayedCall empty
  function _preRelayedCall(bytes memory context) internal returns (bytes32) {
```

  }

  function _postRelayedCall(bytes memory context, bool, uint256 actualCharge, bytes32) internal {
  }
}
----

> Start ganache on a separate terminal by running `ganache-cli`. Then, create an instance of our new contract using the OpenZeppelin CLI with `oz create`, and follow the prompts, including saying yes to call a function to initialize the instance. Be sure to copy the address of your instance which is returned at the end of the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start ganache on a separate terminal by running `npx ganache-cli`. Then, create an instance of our new contract using the OpenZeppelin CLI with `npx oz create` and follow the prompts, including choosing to call a function to initialize the instance. 

Be sure to take note of the address of your instance, which is returned at the end of this process!
```

> NOTE: It is important that you remember to call the `initialize()` function when creating the contract, as this will be sure to get your contract ready to be used in the GSN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: It is important that you remember to call the `initialize()` function when creating the contract, as this will get your contract ready to be used in the GSN.
```

[source,console]
----
$ openzeppelin create
✓ Compiled contracts with solc 0.5.9 (commit.e560f70d)
? Pick a contract to instantiate Counter
? Pick a network development
All contracts are up to date
? Call a function to initialize the instance after creating it? Yes
? Select which function * initialize()
✓ Instance created at 0x7F73086E24ce5834E62075dEAB2b8F10865FFF9B
----

> Great! Now, if we deployed this contract to mainnet or the rinkeby testnet, we would almost be ready to start sending gasless transactions to it since the GSN is set up on both of those networks. However, since we are on a local ganache, we need to set it up ourselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great! Now, if we deployed this contract to mainnet or the rinkeby testnet, we would be almost ready to start sending gasless transactions to it, since the GSN is already set up on both of those networks. However, since we are on a local ganache, we'll need to set it up ourselves.
```

[[deploying-local-gsn]]
=== Deploying a Local GSN for Development

The GSN is composed of a central `RelayHub` contract that coordinates all relayed transactions, as well as multiple decentralized relayers. The relayers are processes that receive requests to relay a transaction via an HTTP interface and send them to the network via the `RelayHub`.

> Having ganache already running, you can start a new relayer in a new terminal using the following command from `@openzeppelin/gsn-helpers`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With ganache running, you can start a relayer in a new terminal using the following command from the xref:gsn-helpers::api.adoc#command_line_interface[*OpenZeppelin GSN Helpers*]:
```

[source,console]
----
$ npx oz-gsn run-relayer
Deploying singleton RelayHub instance
RelayHub deployed at 0xd216153c06e857cd7f72665e0af1d7d82172f494
Starting relayer
 -Url http://localhost:8090
...
RelayHttpServer starting. version: 0.4.0
...
Relay funded. Balance: 4999305160000000000
----

> NOTE: Under the hood, this command takes care of several steps to have a local relayer up and running. First, it will download a relayer binary for your platform and start it. It will then deploy the `RelayHub` contract to your local ganache, registering the relayer on the hub, and funding it so it can relay transactions. You can run these steps individually by using other `oz-gsn commands` or even xref::gsn-helpers:index.adoc[directly from your code].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Under the hood, this command takes care of several steps to have a local relayer up and running. First, it will download a relayer binary for your platform and start it. It will then deploy the `RelayHub` contract to your local ganache, registering the relayer on the hub, and funding it so it can relay transactions. You can run these steps individually by using other `oz-gsn commands` or even xref::gsn-helpers:api.adoc#javascript_interface[directly from your JavaScript code].
```

> The last step will be to _fund_ our `Counter` contract. GSN relayers require recipient contracts to have funds since they will then charge the cost of the relayed transaction (plus a fee!) to it. We will again use the `oz-gsn` set of commands to do this. Make sure to replace the recipient address with the address of your `Counter` contract instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last step will be to _fund_ our `Counter` contract. GSN relayers require recipient contracts to have funds since they will then charge the cost of the relayed transaction (plus a fee!) to it. We will again use the `oz-gsn` set of commands to do this:
```

[source,console]
----
$ npx oz-gsn fund-recipient --recipient 0xCfEB869F69431e42cdB54A4F4f105C19C080A601
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Make sure to replace the recipient address with the address of your `Counter` contract instance!

```

> Cool! Now that we have our GSN-powered contract and a local GSN to try it out, let's build a small (d)app.

Reviewer: :joy: is it Dapp? dapp? (d)app?

Author: /shrug

[[creating-the-dapp]]
=== Creating the Dapp

We will create our (d)app using the `create-react-app` package, which bootstraps a simple client-side application using React.

[source,console]
----

> npx create-react-app client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ npx create-react-app client
```

----

First, create a symlink so we can access our compiled contract `.json` files. From inside the `client/src` directory, run:
[source,console]
----

> ln -ns ../../build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ln -ns ../../build
```

----

This will allow our front end to reach our contract artifacts.

> Then, replace `client/src/App.js` file, with the following code. This will use `@openzeppelin/network` to create a new provider connected to the local network. It will use a key generated on the spot to sign all transactions on behalf of the user and will use the GSN to relay them to the network. This allows your users to start interacting with your (d)app right away, even if they do not have MetaMask installed, an Ethereum account, or any ETH at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, replace `client/src/App.js` with the following code. This will use xref:network-js::index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin Network JS*] to create a new provider connected to the local network. It will use a key generated on the spot to sign all transactions on behalf of the user and will use the GSN to relay them to the network. This allows your users to start interacting with your (d)app right away, even if they do not have MetaMask installed, an Ethereum account, or any ETH at all.
```

> [source,javascript]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,jsx]
```

----

> import React, { useState, useEffect, useCallback } from "react";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// client/src/App.js
import React, { useState, useEffect, useCallback } from "react";
```

  }

  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  const getCount = useCallback(async () => {
    if (counterInstance) {
      // Get the value from the contract to prove it worked.
      const response = await counterInstance.methods.value().call();
      // Update state with the result.
      setCount(response);
    }
  }, [counterInstance]);

  useEffect(() => {
    getCount();
  }, [counterInstance, getCount]);

  const increase = async () => {
    await counterInstance.methods.increase().send({ from: accounts[0] });
    getCount();
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <h3> Counter counterInstance </h3>
      {lib && !counterInstance && (
        <React.Fragment>
          <div>Contract Instance or network not loaded.</div>
        </React.Fragment>
      )}
      {lib && counterInstance && (
        <React.Fragment>
          <div>
            <div>Counter Value:</div>
            <div>{count}</div>
          </div>
          <div>Counter Actions</div>
            <button onClick={() => increase()} size="small">
              Increase Counter by 1
            </button>
        </React.Fragment>
      )}
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;

----

> NOTE: You can pass a `dev: true` flag to the `gsn` options when setting up the provider. This will use the xref:gsn-provider::index.adoc[GSNDevProvider] instead of the regular GSN provider. This is a provider set up specifically for testing or development, and it _does not require a relayer to be running_ to work. This can make development easier, but it will feel less like the actual GSN experience. If you want to use an actual relayer, you can run `npx oz-gsn run-relayer` locally (see the xref:gsn-helpers::preparing-a-testing-environment.adoc[OpenZeppelin GSN helpers] for more info).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: You can pass a `dev: true` flag to the `gsn` options when setting up the provider. This will use the xref:gsn-provider::index.adoc[GSNDevProvider] instead of the regular GSN provider. This is a provider set up specifically for testing or development, and it _does not require a relayer to be running_ to work. This can make development easier, but it will feel less like the actual GSN experience. If you want to use an actual relayer, you can run `npx oz-gsn run-relayer` locally (see the xref:gsn-helpers::preparing-a-testing-environment.adoc[Preparing a Testing Environment] for more info).
```

Great! We can now fire up our application running `npm start` from within the `client` folder. Remember to keep both your ganache and relayer up and running. You should be able to send transactions to your `Counter` contract without having to use MetaMask or have any ETH at all!

[[moving-to-testnet]]

> === Moving to a testnet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Moving to a Testnet
```

> It is not too impressive sending a local transaction in your ganache network, where you already have a bunch of fully-funded accounts. To witness the GSN at its full potential, let's move our application to the Rinkeby testnet. If you later want to go onto mainnet, the instructions are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not very impressive to send a local transaction in your ganache network, where you already have a bunch of fully-funded accounts. To witness the GSN at its full potential, let's move our application to the Rinkeby testnet. If you later want to go onto mainnet, the instructions are the same.
```

> Let's start by deploying our `Counter` contract to Rinkeby. You will need an account with some Rinkeby Ether for this, which you will have to register in your `network.js` file. Take a look at xref:public-deploy.adoc[deploying to a public network] guide for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to create a new entry in the `networks.js` file, with a Rinkeby account that has been funded. For detailed instructions on how to do this, check out xref:public-staging.adoc[Deploying to a Public Test Network].
 
We can now deploy our `Counter` contract to Rinkeby:
```

[source,console]
----
$ openzeppelin create
✓ Compiled contracts with solc 0.5.9 (commit.e560f70d)
? Pick a contract to instantiate: Counter
? Pick a network: rinkeby
✓ Added contract Counter
✓ Contract Counter deployed
? Call a function to initialize the instance after creating it?: Yes
? Select which function * initialize()
✓ Setting everything up to create contract instances
✓ Instance created at 0xCfEB869F69431e42cdB54A4F4f105C19C080A601
----

> The next step will be to instruct our (d)app to connect to a Rinkeby node instead of to the local network. Change the `PROVIDER_URL` in your `App.js` to do this using, for instance, an Infura Rinkeby endpoint. At this point, you will also want to pass in a config object as we will be using a real GSN provider rather than our developer environment, and our config options give us more control over things such as the gas price we are willing to pay. For production (d)apps, you will want to configure this to your requirements. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step will be to instruct our (d)app to connect to a Rinkeby node instead of the local network. Change the `PROVIDER_URL` in your `App.js` to, for example, an Infura Rinkeby endpoint. 

We will now be using a real GSN provider rather than our developer environment, so you may want to also provide a xref:gsn-provider::api.adoc[configuration object], which will give you more control over things such as the gas price you are willing to pay. For production (d)apps, you will want to configure this to your requirements. 
```

[source,javascript]
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

import { useWeb3Network, useEphemeralKey } from "@openzeppelin/network/react";

// inside App.js#App()
const context = useWeb3Network('https://rinkeby.infura.io/v3/' + INFURA_API_TOKEN, {
  gsn: { signKey: useEphemeralKey() }
});
----
 

> Redeploy using the cli command `oz create`, selecting `Rinkeby` as the network, and copy the address returned at the end (You will need it later to fund your contract!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Why did you remove this bit?

Reviewer: We've deployed two paragraphs ago, this instruction was repeated (this was less obvious before the suggestions were applied)

Author: Oops, good point!

image::GSNDappTool.png[OpenZeppelin GSN Dapp Tool,500]

That's it! We can now start sending transactions to our `Counter` contract on the Rinkeby network from our browser without even having MetaMask installed.

[[gsn-kit]]
== The GSN Starter Kit

xref:starter-kits::index.adoc[Starter Kits] are pre-configured project templates to bootstrap dapp development. One of them, the xref:starter-kits::gsnkit.adoc[GSN Starter Kit], is a ready-to-use dapp connected to the GSN, with a similar setup as the one we built from scratch in the previous section.

If you are building a new dapp and want to include meta-transaction support, you can run `oz unpack gsn` to jumpstart your development and start with a GSN-enabled box!

== Next Steps

To learn more about the GSN, head over to the following resources:

* To learn how to use OpenZeppelin Contracts to *build a GSN-capable contract*, head to the xref:contracts::gsn.adoc[GSN basics guide].
* If you want to learn how to use OpenZeppelin Contracts' *pre-made accept and charge strategies*, go to the xref:contracts::gsn-strategies.adoc[GSN Strategies guide].

> * If instead you wish to know more about how to *use GSN from your application*, head to the xref:gsn-provider::index.adoc[OpenZeppelin GSN provider guides].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If instead you wish to know more about how to *use GSN from your application*, head to the xref:gsn-provider::index.adoc[OpenZeppelin GSN Provider guides].
```

> * For information on how to *test GSN-enabled contracts*, go to the xref:test-helpers::index.adoc[OpenZeppelin test helpers documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For information on how to *test GSN-enabled contracts*, go to the xref:gsn-helpers::preparing-a-testing-environmentadoc[OpenZeppelin GSN Helpers documentation].
```

= Gasless Transactions

Anyone who sends an Ethereum transaction needs to have Ethere to pay for its gas fees. This forces new users to purchase Ether (which can be a daunting task) before they can start using a dapp. This is a major hurdle in user onboarding.

> In this guide, we will explore the concept of gasless (also called _meta_) transactions, where the user does not need to pay for their gas fees. We will also introduce the https://gasstation.network[Gas Station Network], a decentralized solution to this problem, as well as the OpenZeppelin libraries that allow you to leverage it in your dapps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will explore the concept of gasless (also called _meta_) transactions, where *the user does not need to pay for their gas fees*. We will also introduce the https://gasstation.network[Gas Station Network], a decentralized solution to this problem, as well as the OpenZeppelin libraries that allow you to leverage it in your dapps:
```

> * <<what-is-a-meta-tx, Learn what are meta-transactions and why they matter>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<what-is-a-meta-tx, Learn what meta-transactions are and why they matter>>
```

**Enter meta-transactions**. This is a fancy name for a simple idea: a third-party (called here a _relayer_) can send another user's transactions and pay themselves for the gas cost. In this scheme, users sign messages (not transactions) containing information about a transaction they would like to execute. Relayers are then responsible for signing valid Ethereum transactions with this information and sending them to the network, paying for the gas cost. A xref:contracts::api/gsn.adoc#GSNRecipient[base contract] preserves the identity of the user that originally requested the transaction. In this way, users can interact directly with smart contracts without needing to have a wallet or own ETH.

This means that, in order to support meta transactions in your application, you need to keep a _relayer_ process running - or leverage a decentralized relayer network.

[[gas-station-network]]
== The Gas Station Network

> The https://gasstation.network[Gas Station Network] (_GSN_) is a decentralized network of _relayers_. It allows you to build dapps where you pay for your users transactions, so they do not need to hold Ether to pay for gas, easing their onboarding process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The https://gasstation.network[Gas Station Network] (GSN) is a decentralized network of _relayers_. It allows you to build dapps where you pay for your users transactions, so they do not need to hold Ether to pay for gas, easing their onboarding process.
```

However, relayers in the GSN are not running a charity: they're running a business. The reason why they'll gladly pay for your users' gas costs is because they will in turn charge your contract, the _recipient_. That way relayers get their money back, plus a bit extra as a fee for their services.

This may sound strange at first, but paying for user onboarding is a very common business practice. Lots of money is spent on advertising, free trials, new user discounts, etc., all with the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_acquisition_cost[goal of user acquisition]. Compared to those, the cost of a couple of Ethereum transactions is actually very small.

Additionally, you can leverage the GSN in scenarios where your users pay you off-chain in advance (e.g. via credit card), with each GSN-call deducting from their balance on your system. The possibilities are endless!

Furthermore, the GSN is set up in such a way where it’s in the relayers' best interest to serve your requests, and there are measures in place to penalize them if they misbehave. All of this happens automatically, so you can safely start using their services worry-free.

> TIP: You can learn more about how the GSN works in https://example.com[this guide].

Reviewer: Is this where we link to the to-be-added guides in the provider?

Author: Exactly!

[[building-a-gsn-dapp]]
== Building a GSN-powered DApp

> Time to build a dapp leveraging the GSN and push it to a testnet. In this section, we will use the `create-react-app` package to bootstrap a React application and use the `@openzeppelin/network` package to easily set up a web3 object with GSN support. Also, since the GSN is not available on your local ganache, we will use the `@openzeppelin/gsn-helpers` package to emulate it locally. We will use the `@openzeppelin/cli` to manage our contracts and extend from `@openzeppelin/contracts-ethereum-package` to add GSN capabilities to them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time to build a dapp leveraging the GSN and push it to a testnet. In this section, we will use:
 * The `create-react-app` package to bootstrap a React application, along with xref::network-js:index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin Network JS*] to easily set up a web3 object with GSN support
 * xref:gsn-helpers::index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin GSN Helpers*] to emulate the GSN in your local ganache instance
 * The https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts-ethereum-package[`@openzeppelin/contracts-ethereum-package`] smart contract library to get GSN
 * The xref:sdk::index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin CLI*] to manage and deploy our contracts
```

> NOTE: It might feel like there are many moving pieces here, but each component has a well-defined role in building this application. That said, if you are new to the OpenZeppelin platform, it may help to look into the xref:contracts::gsn.adoc[OpenZeppelin Contracts GSN guide] and xref:on-dapps.adoc[how to build a dapp] before you continue reading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: It might feel like there are many moving pieces here, but each component has a well-defined role in building this application. That said, if you are new to the OpenZeppelin platform, it may help to look into the xref:contracts::gsn.adoc[OpenZeppelin Contracts GSN guide] and the xref:on-dapps.adoc[Building a Dapp tutorial] before you continue reading.
```

> We will create a super simple contract that just counts transactions sent to it from users but will tie it into the GSN so the users will not have to pay for the gas from those transactions. Let's get started!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create a simple contract that just counts transactions sent to it, but will tie it into the GSN so that users will not have to pay for the gas when sending these transactions. Let's get started!
```

Author: Good one removing the unnecessary `super`
